Okay, so in this particular video,
let's quickly jump on
to the npm first and then we
will revisit this topic.
So, yeah, so in between we have
to jump onto the npm topic.
Okay, that is very important.
And then we will come
back to this thing.
Okay, so what was npm?
npm was basically the Node
Package Manager, right?
Node Package Manager.
Now if, now, interestingly, if you
will Google the full form for npm,
then this is not the official one.
Actually, there is no
official full form for npm.
So this is what everyone suggests
that that is Node Package Manager,
because that makes sense.
It is responsible for
managing the packages.
Okay, so let me show you that.
Let's say I want to install
the typings, okay?
So what are, these typings?
Basically, right now you can see
that when I do FS dot, I am
not getting any typings, right?
The VS code is not aware that what
this fss to make VS code aware, we
have to install a package, okay?
We have to install a package that is
at the rate types/ node.
So this is a package name, right?
This is a, external package.
This is maintained by Microsoft.
And this is an external package
that we have to install.
So how can I install this package
into my, this particular project?
Now, for that, for that,
first of all, I have to make
this project as a package.
This is not a package, right?
Right now I'm just
having a single file.
I'm just running it.
It's fine.
But this is not a package.
So for that, what you have to do is
on the root of your folder, on
the root of your project folder root
basically means this is the root.
On the top level, you have to create
a file that is package JSON.
Okay?
So this is basically the rule
that what you have to do is
you have to create a file
whose name is package.JSON.
exactly.
This, this package.JSON is kind
of like a configuration
file for your project, okay?
It's like a configuration file.
Now what this configuration can
contain, this configuration can
contain the name of your project.
This can contain the version
of your project.
This can contain all the scripts
that your project supports,
and it can support it.
It also holds something
known as dependencies.
Dependencies basically means
that what external packages
to load in order for this
particular project to run.
So that means that your project
is dependent on which, which,
you know, libraries or modules,
that is your dependencies.
Now, usually we don't create this
package or JSON on our own.
So for that we have a command that
is npm init So when you run this
command, this will automatically
create a package JSON file for you.
So let me do an enter so you can see
that it is asking me few questions.
For example, what is the name
of your package?
So it is by default
taking the 01 modules.
So you can just say modules enter.
What is the version of your
project of your package?
Let's go with one.
Do you want to add some description?
It's optional.
I mean if you want to do you can.
I'll skip what is your entry
point, that is index js.
What's your test command?
Let's just go ahead,
go ahead, go ahead.
Author everything okay, fine.
Now did you notice that I
got a package JSON file?
This CLI.
This command of npm init
created a package.JSON file for me.
Right now this contains the name.
Feel free to change it.
So this is the name of my project.
This is the version, I
can update the version.
Let's say I want to release
version 2, version 3 so
I can do that from here.
Then you have main that
this is your entry point.
Then you have all the scripts
that your project can support.
And right now there is no dependency.
Can you see any dependencies?
No, there is no dependency.
So let's add a dependency.
So keep in mind this
dependencies always keeps track
of third party deps.
Okay, Third party dependencies.
So right now my project is not having
any third party dependency.
So let's install npm.
Install a third party
dependency, that is this.
Okay, so you have to basically
type npm install
at the rate types slash node.
So let me just do an enter.
So what this is going to do is
this is going to download this.
Now see what happened?
Do you see that?
Automatically I got a, dependencies.
And right now my project is dependent
on this particular dependency.
And this is the version, this is
basically the latest version.
And now I have this dependency.
And interestingly, a new folder
is created of node modules.
As soon as you did npm install, a new
folder appeared that is nodemodules.
Now what is this folder?
Now this is a folder
which you never touch.
Whenever you install a third party
dependency or a package or whatever
you want to call the source code
of this third party dependency is
actually kept in the node modules.
Okay, so when you say, let's
say npm install package
name, whatever package you want
to install this command.
Okay, so let's say this is npm.
You can even do npm I so let's say
npm install this command, fetches
this package from the Internet.
Okay?
So I'll show you from where it
fetches, okay, from the Internet.
And from the Internet it gets
the source code and keeps
it inside the node modules.
So right now you can see we have
at the rate type slash node.
So in the node modules you have
at the rate types in which, in which
you have, you will have node.
Okay, so it can be a file.
So if I just go on, where is that?
Yeah, so it's basically
at the type slash node only.
You can see we only
have one folder node.
And this is all the code
that is being fetched.
Okay?
So this is the source code
of this particular dependency.
Now what will happen is, now what
you will notice is that when I
do fs.you are actually getting
all the suggestions because now
what is happening is your VS
code is aware of all the
dependencies and everything that
is available.
How?
Because this particular
thing is here.
Got it.
So this is the thing that is giving
all the information to the VS code
that what all options, what all
functions, what all interfaces are
available on this FS module.
Got it?
Now what if I delete
this folder by mistake?
Actually, yeah, you can
delete this folder right?
Right.
Now what happened?
That folder got deleted It.
Interestingly what I can do is
I can just say npm install,
what this npm install will do.
This will read your package or JSON
file and it will see, oh, this is
a package that you are using and you
don't have this node modules.
So just do an enter and it
will bring back it.
So you don't really have
to worry about node modules.
One more thing.
If you are built, if you are working
on a project and your project has,
let's say 30 dependencies, okay?
Now you know that all these 30
dependencies will be a part
of your package JSON, right?
This package or JSON
will keep a track.
If you share this project
with your friend, there is no need
to share the node modules.
So you can just
remove the node module.
So even if you are working with
git or GitHub, you can ignore
the node modules to be shadcn.
Okay?
So node modules you never ever
push on the GitHub because you
know these are very bulky.
Your friend will just take
the source code and he will run
the command that is npm install.
His npm install will automatically
read the package JSON,
fetch all the packages
from the Internet and create
a node modules folder for him.
So whenever you want to share your
project, no need to share this
node modules folder because this
is automatically generated so
anyone who has an Internet access
can fetch back this node modules
and sharing this will not cause
any issue.
But it's very heavy in size.
Okay, so now you understand
that what is happening.
So package JSON is a manifest or
a configuration file for you.
It keeps tracks
of the dependencies and.
And when you do npm install,
it basically reads your
dependencies list and tries
to install everything back.
Okay?
And there are even some shortcuts.
So you can just say like
for example, npm I.
So that also works.
No need to write npm install.
You can even do npm I at the rate
types slash, node and enter.
So this also works.
It is now becoming very fast because
I already already have the code.
So it is not basically installing it.
Okay, now there is one more file that
is this package hyphen lock JSON.
This is also a file which is
automatically generated.
Okay, now what this file
maintains you never touch this file,
this package log file.
Okay, so you have this package
hyphen lock JSON file.
This lock file maintains
dependencies of dependencies.
Let's say you are working
on a project A.
Your project A
is dependent on project B.
This project B is internally
using project C
and it uses project D to work.
So when you install project B,
this automatically also installs
project B, project C and D, right?
Because in order to use B,
C and D should also be there.
So all this track, right?
That which project is dependent
on which project and internally
dependent on which project that
all information npm internally
stores in this particular file
that is Package hyphen lock
JSON.
Okay, so you can see that,
you know, this particular thing
depends upon this thing.
Do you see that?
Like if you see there is something
known as unit decade types.
Did you installed this thing?
No, how this came?
Because this package that I wanted
to install further
depends on this particular thing.
So.
So that is the reason that
this is also installed.
So where it is kept track
in package hyphen lock JSON.
So I have just said, Hey, I just want
this package lock has fetched the
dependencies of this thing and there
is a chance that this package that
is this package further depends on
something which is not here in the
case.
But yeah, that is also possible.
So that is what package
hyphen log maintains.
And even if you delete this package
hyphen log, that's fine, you
can just do an npm install and that
will also be regenerated.
Okay, so you have to just
maintain this package JSON file.
If you lose this package JSON file?
Yeah.
Then that's a problem because
then you have to again create
this file and you have to list
down all the dependencies.
So this package JSON file
and your source code is something
that is very important.
Rest all things are regeneratable.